since we're talking about Mexican
Folklorico dance we're gonna now
incorporate some of the steps we learned
earlier with or skirt the relationship
with their arms and torso whether feed
whether spotting that we did earlier and
uh our first step that we were doing
well we talked about heel and toe heel
and toe flat foot flat foot we will talk
about the single wallets so with their
skirt a double one we're going to learn
that one a couple new steps and we're
gonna start with neo which will could be
translated that's a screw and what we do
is we put our heel right in front of us
we twist it
we're screwed screw with twisted as a
screw we put her left foot with a flat
sound on the back then we do our we put
her right here right toe back so screw
with a right flat left toe right so
that's the screw now with our skirt we
can use it very simple as we were
talking keeping our elbows up we could
turn with that we could use only one
foot oh we could use both also the cross
step it's very simple you just cross
cross this is all flat crossing
remember to keep your torso moving
don't keep it stiff it's very loose no
you cannot you aren't your arms also one
of the really really important part of
the mexican folkorico dance will be what
it's called a matte day or your finale
that sees mostly for any state of Mexico
uses that if it's Jalisco which is what
we're using and talked about right now
if it's Chiapas Veracruz it was from the
north part of Mexico from the south
Monali mostly everybody uses the step so
it usually what it is you turn around on
yourself you cross right over left and
you stamp or do a flat foot with your
right foot
so bum bum bum so right left so you will
cross right left cross right left and
while your arms are doing they're
crossing with you you're keeping them
even to your your skirt is slightly on
top of your elbows and on your hands so
you're crossing and doing the finale or
Ramat all right let's see that again
so you're crossing remati right